you're in an elevator you have an
audience you've found a potential
customer or potential investor and that
person's trapped with you for 30 seconds
or a minute and you need to get them
hooked an elevator pitch is a short
succinct statement that you can right
away understand what the business is all
about the pitch that I initially created
I remember that it was more focus on the
problem that I was trying to solve and
the the technology that would go into
solving the problem one of the biggest
issues that we have with people joining
us at the cleantech open is that they
have a very long complicated explanation
of what the technology does infrared
babe image processing technology we do
they even bread it's not a technical the
description of the engineering behind
the venture first and foremost it's a
prototype of your business one of my
first responsibilities when I came on
board was to go seek angel investor or
VC funding I figured i'm only gonna have
30 seconds with these folks and while I
can't tell them everything I need to
figure out how to get their interest a
good elevator pitches when I immediately
think I need to know more about this
tell me more what you need to do is is
really get the basic facts out what kind
of a business you're in who's it for
what makes it special and how are you
going to make money at it we had to
write reams of material to create
different elevator pitches and then
narrow it down you start to apply
filters is their technical jargon in
there get rid of it if there's language
in there that acronyms get rid of them
if there is something that isn't
absolutely core to your business get it
out of there a goalless do fit this in
30 seconds make sure we can't be
redundant we should get rid of it
be short a to the point we push for a
Twitter like 140 character limit it
needs to be that simple that crisp and
that clear in your mind and take open we
teach them the process of boiling that
down to benefits to explaining something
in language that your mother or my
mother could understand keep a generic
in the beginning so that you can provide
a quick overview of what your solutions
about find out what the other person's
interests are and then customize the
rest of it so if you're talking to me it
would be of interest how would this
impact improve of Chevron operation the
BCS don't care what technology you are
using they wanted to hear where is the
money part of the process in perfecting
the pitch was thinking about it in terms
of telling a story make sure you can
paint the picture you can form an image
in someone's mind you've done the most
important thing to hook them in which is
to create something that they won't
easily forget ready you ready to do this
yeah okay let's go on my mark yep
it's very straightforward but the real
trick comes in is a great job and
listening to what people respond to and
adapting it and changing it constantly
so we talk to more end users as we are
talking to new business partners the
message is being re-crafted on
day-to-day basis you've got to practice
practice practice and ultimately you'll
you'll get it right so the process of
evolution continues and there is a new
pitch santolan has develop a new product
that balances home comfort with energy
efficiency our first product that is
smart HVAC uses innovative sensors smart
algorithms and wireless battery-operated
smart pets it enables us to learn unique
living patterns based on those learn
patterns then we can condition only the
occupied rooms thereby improving comfort
while saving thirty percent in energy
use so how is that
you